README.md, before:

This repository contains the firmware versions for the Bardhele Electronic
VIDEO-MPF-I card. 

More info on my home page: https://www.electrickery.nl/comp/mpf1/doc/index.html


VIO.zip are the hex dumps of the original ROMs that came with the card.


These are the most interesting entry addresses:

* 0a000h:   clear screen, reset cursor 

* 0a004h:	init 6845, clear screen, return from call
 
* 0a007h:	init 6845, clear screen, jump to 0000h

* 0a00ah:	(JCRTCO) print character in C, interpret control codes

* 0a00dh:	(JCRTOU) print character in C, print codes 00h-31h too

* 0a010h:	(JTEXCO) print 00h terminated string (start in IY)

* 0a013h:	(JTEXCLN) print 00h terminated string (start in IY) with line end (CR/LF)

* 0a016h:	writes character set to screen

* 0a019h:   init 6845, clear screen, print banner, rst 0

* 0a01Fh:   hex/ascii memory dump of 8 * 16 bytes, rst 0

The hardware is configured for 8 bit wide, 11 bit high characters, 
limiting the screen to 40 x 20 characters (PAL timing). A proper video 
standard is useful as it allows usage of small, cheap TFT screens.

The assembly code is not very well understood, and contains multiple usages
of un-occupied memory (0ff04h - 0ffcch range). It works, but unknown as to
how or why.

The new code is currently assembled for and tested via the MicroProfessor 
U7 socket at 02000h. The VIO-MPF-I 1.2 PCB ROM 0A000h socket should work, 
too, but the extra flatcable of the ROMEmu 
(https://github.com/electrickery/ROM-emulator) gives problems. 

Screenshot of the first page of the Monitor ROM:
![Hex-ASCII dump](./hex-asc-dump.jpg)

Schema of the original Bardhele VIDEO-MPF-I:
![Schema VIDEO-MPF-I v1.2](./VIO_MPF_schema_v1.2.pdf)

Commit message:

Added dead-code removal success to doc.

README.md, after:

This repository contains the firmware versions for the Bardhele Electronic
VIDEO-MPF-I card. 

More info on my home page: https://www.electrickery.nl/comp/mpf1/doc/index.html


VIO.zip are the hex dumps of the original ROMs that came with the card.


These are the most interesting entry addresses:

* 0a000h:   clear screen, reset cursor 

* 0a004h:	init 6845, clear screen, return from call
 
* 0a007h:	init 6845, clear screen, jump to 0000h

* 0a00ah:	(JCRTCO) print character in C, interpret control codes

* 0a00dh:	(JCRTOU) print character in C, print codes 00h-31h too

* 0a010h:	(JTEXCO) print 00h terminated string (start in IY)

* 0a013h:	(JTEXCLN) print 00h terminated string (start in IY) with line end (CR/LF)

* 0a016h:	writes character set to screen

* 0a019h:   init 6845, clear screen, print banner, rst 0

* 0a01Fh:   hex/ascii memory dump of 8 * 16 bytes, rst 0

The hardware is configured for 8 bit wide, 11 bit high characters, 
limiting the screen to 40 x 20 characters (PAL timing). A proper video 
standard is useful as it allows usage of small, cheap TFT screens.

The assembly code is not very well understood, and used to contain multiple 
usages of un-occupied memory (0ff04h - 0ffcch range). It works, as long as
all unused memory returns 0FFh (EPROM installed). This dead code is now
succesfully removed now (entry points still work). It may be part of a 
debugging tool.

The new code is currently assembled for and tested via the MicroProfessor 
U7 socket at 02000h. The VIO-MPF-I 1.2 PCB ROM 0A000h socket should work, 
too, but the extra flatcable of the ROMEmu 
(https://github.com/electrickery/ROM-emulator) gives problems. 

Screenshot of the first page of the Monitor ROM:
![Hex-ASCII dump](./hex-asc-dump.jpg)

Schema of the original Bardhele VIDEO-MPF-I:
![Schema VIDEO-MPF-I v1.2](./VIO_MPF_schema_v1.2.pdf)
